# CryptaAnalysis
Code for Encoding a message using One-Time Pad and program for hacking another message

Code for Hackathon (2nd place)

In this, we have an Index of Coincidence test, Kasiski Test, cryptanalysis programs (frequency analysis, finding key length, sorting by score, sortByEnglish), decoding programs for transposition, substitution, and polyalphabetic shift ciphers, alphabetical arrays, and hacking programs for transposition, monoalphabetic, and polyalphabetic ciphers. You can learn more about these through our repl code linked below. All of this is combined into a solid architecture layout which works together in order to crack most common types of encoded messages that are given to us. Our hacking program can decode most sentences*, but however, it does not recognize the types of punctuation as that will require us going into grammar rules using NLTK which we didn't get to. It recognizes where the punctuation is but does not recognize the symbol itself (! ,  .) .
      Note that this is still under development and that some logic could be improved. Most functions already implemented would allow to break almost all ciphers though some code would be needed to address specific encryption schemes. As per now, monoalphabetic substitution ciphers are almost fully implemented. Transposition functions are implemented, but this would require a bit more work to address columnar and vertical transpositions. Polyalphabetic cipher cryptanalysis functions such as IC, Kasiski, and combined tests are also implemented, however, each specific encryption paradigm hasn't been implemented as there is no base case. A polyalphabetic shift has been partially implemented, but still may require some fixes. A vigenere cipher encryption was to be started, but has stalled after the prompt has changed. If you have any questions on the procedures or technicalities of the program, please reach out to me
